---
layout: paper
categories: papers
permalink: papers/SiamFT
id: SiamFT
title: "SiamFT: An RGB-Infrared Fusion Tracking Method via Fully Convolutional Siamese Networks"
authors:
  - Xingchen Zhang 
  - Ping Ye
  - ShengYun Peng
  - Jun Liu 
  - Ke Gong 
  - Gang Xiao 
venue: IEEE Access 
year: 2019
url: /papers/SiamFT
pdf: /papers/19_SiamFT.pdf
type: paper
figure: /images/papers/19_SiamFT.png
feature-title: RGB-Infrared Fusion Tracker
feature-description: "Improving the tracking accuracy when both visible and infrared videos are provided based on SiamFC tracker"
image: /images/featured/19_SiamFT.png
featured: true
feature-order: 3
selected: false
type: journal
doi: "10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2936914"
bibtex: |-

  @article{zhang2019siamft,
    title={SiamFT: An RGB-Infrared Fusion Tracking Method via Fully Convolutional Siamese Networks},
    author={Zhang, Xingchen and Ye, Ping and Peng, Shengyun and Liu, Jun and Gong, Ke and Xiao, Gang},
    journal={IEEE Access},
    year={2019},
    volume={7},
    number={},
    pages={122122-122133},
    doi={10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2936914}
  }
---

Object tracking based on visible images may fail when the visible images are unreliable, 
for example when the illumination condition is poor. Infrared images reveal thermal radiation of 
objects and are insensitive to these factors. Due to the complementary features of visible and 
infrared images, RGB-infrared fusion tracking has attracted widespread attention recently. 
In this paper, an RGB-infrared fusion tracking method based on the fully convolutional Siamese 
Networks, termed as SiamFT, is proposed. Visible and infrared images are firstly processed by 
two Siamese Networks, namely visible network and infrared network, respectively. Then, convolutional 
features of visible and infrared template images extracted from two Siamese Networks are concatenated 
to form fused template image. Convolutional features of visible and infrared search image are fused 
through the proposed feature fusion network adaptively. In particular, a modality weight computation 
method based on the response value of Siamese network is proposed to predict the reliability of different 
images. Cross-relation is then applied to the fused template feature and the fused search feature to 
produce the final response map, based on which the tracking results can be obtained. 
Extensive experiments indicate that the proposed SiamFT shows better performance than the-state-of-art 
fusion tracking algorithms at real-time speed. 