---
layout: paper
categories: papers
permalink: papers/anchor-free
id: Accurate Anchor Free Tracking
title: "Accurate Anchor Free Tracking"
authors:
  - ShengYun Peng
  - Yunxuan Yu
  - Kun Wang
  - Lei He
venue: arXiv 
year: 2020
url: /papers/anchor-free
pdf: /papers/20_AFSN.pdf
type: paper
figure: /images/papers/20_AFSN.png
feature-title: Accurate Anchor Free Tracking
feature-description: "Anchor Free Siamese Network: a target object is defined by a bounding box center, tracking offset, and object size"
image: /images/featured/20_AFSN.png
featured: true
feature-order: 2
selected: true
type: misc
bibtex: |-

  @misc{peng2020accurate,
    title={Accurate Anchor Free Tracking},
    author={Shengyun Peng and Yunxuan Yu and Kun Wang and Lei He},
    year={2020},
    eprint={2006.07560},
    archivePrefix={arXiv},
    primaryClass={cs.CV}
  }
---

Visual object tracking is an important application of computer vision. Recently, Siamese based trackers 
have achieved good accuracy. However, most of Siamese based trackers are not efficient, as they exhaustively
search potential object locations to define anchors and then classify each anchor (i.e., a bounding box). 
This paper develops the first Anchor Free Siamese Network (AFSN). Specifically, a target object is defined by 
a bounding box center, tracking offset, and object size. All three are regressed by Siamese network with no 
additional classification or regional proposal, and performed once for each frame. We also tune the stride and 
receptive field for Siamese network, and further perform ablation experiments to quantitatively illustrate the 
effectiveness of our AFSN. We evaluate AFSN using five most commonly used benchmarks and compare to the 
best anchor-based trackers with source codes available for each benchmark. AFSN is 3-425 times faster than 
these best anchor based trackers. AFSN is also 5.97% to 12.4% more accurate in terms of all metrics for benchmark 
sets OTB2015, VOT2015, VOT2016, VOT2018 and TrackingNet, except that SiamRPN++ is 4% better than AFSN in terms of 
Expected Average Overlap (EAO) on VOT2018 (but SiamRPN++ is 3.9 times slower).
