---
layout: paper
categories: papers
permalink: papers/structural-health-monitoring
id: structural-health-monitoring
title: "A novel DNN tracking algorithm for structural system identification"
authors:
  - ShengYun Peng
  - LingFeng Yan
  - Bin He
  - Ying Zhou
venue: Smart Structures and Systems
year: 2021
url: /papers/structural-health-monitoring
pdf: /papers/17-deeppop-sigspatial.pdf
type: paper
figure: /images/papers/20-interactive-distill.png
feature-title: A novel DNN tracker for structural system identification
feature-description: "Examining "
image: /images/featured/interactive-articles.png
featured: true
feature-order: 1
selected: true
type: journal
doi: "10.12989/sss.2021.27.5.803"
bibtex: |-

  @article{peng2021structural,
    author={Peng, ShengYun and Yan, LingFeng and He, Bin and Zhou, Ying},
    title={A novel DNN tracking algorithm for structural system identification},
    journal={Smart Structures and Systems},
    year={2021},
    doi={10.12989/SSS.2021.27.5.803},
    url={https://www.koreascience.or.kr/article/JAKO202117651384969.page}
  }
---

In the field of structural health monitoring (SHM), cameras record videos and tracking methods 
can be applied to calculate the structural displacement. Commercial and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) 
cameras are promising non-contact sensors owning to their high availability and easy installation. 
However, effective tracking methods need to be developed. In this study, we firstly propose an end-to-end 
vision measuring framework with a novel deep neural network (DNN) tracker, named Siamese Single Decoder Network (SiamSDN). 
The system requires no target installation and uses cellphone cameras. For SiamSDN, the position and scale of bounding 
box are formulated through statistical parameter estimation. Unlike generative trackers, SiamSDN does not require manually 
extracted features or pre-defined motion areas. The tracking object is solely identified in the first frame. 
A shaking table test of a five-storey structure is carried out to demonstrate the efficiency. Besides, 
a UAV is used to simulate the field test. To minimize the error caused by the vibrations of UAV, digital video stabilization (DVS) 
is proposed to eliminate the drifts. Videos taken by both the commercial and UAV cameras are analyzed to calculate the displacements. 
Comparing our DNN tracker with feature point matching approach, SiamSDN improves the displacement measuring accuracy by 66.16% and 57.54%, respectively, 
and the frequency characteristics are obtained precisely.
